doc: Add release notes for 2.2.0 (#9519)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/releases/release-notes-2.2.0.rst

  * Power optimizing AS Release Assistance Indication (RAI) feature with LwM2M with samples and documentation for use on supported cellular networks.
  * Arm Platform Security Architecture best practice on nRF5340 and nRF9160.
    Includes new samples:

    * Provisioning sample for production line provisioning of keys and advancing lifecycle states.
    * PSA template sample demonstrating secure application design using Trusted Firmware-M, nRF Secure Immutable Bootloader and MCUboot.

  * Target Wake Time (TWT) feature in the Wi-Fi driver for nRF7002.

* Improved:

  * Predicted GPS: Location object split into different datasets for improved flexibility and a new API in the location library for predictive GPS location.
  * Neighbor cell measurement functionality for single-cell and multi-cell location services using Modem firmware v1.3.4. Customers can optimize for lower power consumption or performance.
  * The default advertiser implementation in Bluetooth mesh subsystem by changing it from :file:`adv_legacy.c` to :file:`adv_ext.c`.
    This provides performance and reliability improvements in terms of reduced latency and increased relay throughput under high network load.

>   * Power Envelope Control with hardware including nRF21540 to flatten the output power over temperature and frequency.

Reviewer: Maybe "Compensation of nRF21540 gain changes over temperature, frequency, supply voltage and SoC output power"?

>   * Power Envelope Control with hardware including nRF21540 to flatten the output power over temperature and frequency.

Reviewer: Or even leave the sentence as is, but change `Power Envelope Control` to `Front-End Module gain control'

>   * Power Envelope Control with hardware including nRF21540 to flatten the output power over temperature and frequency.

Reviewer 2: Agreed with @ahasztag .

* :ref:`location_sample` sample:

  * Added overlay files for nRF9160 DK with nRF7002 EK to obtain the current location by using Wi-Fi scanning results.

* :ref:`lte_sensor_gateway` sample:

  * Added handling for the new data receive events in the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library.
  * Removed A-GPS and P-GPS processing; it is now handled by the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library.

* :ref:`nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service` sample:

  * Added:

    * Support for the :ref:`lib_location` library Wi-Fi location method with the nRF7002 EK.
    * Handling for the new data receive events in the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library.
    * Board overlay file for nRF9160 DK with external flash.
    * Overlay file to enable P-GPS data storage in external flash.

  * Removed A-GPS and P-GPS processing; it is now handled by the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library.

Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) samples
---------------------------------

* Added:

  * :ref:`tfm_psa_test` for validating compliance with Arm PSA Certified requirements.
  * :ref:`tfm_regression_test` to run secure and non-secure Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) regression tests.

>   * :ref:`tfm_psa_template`, providing a template for Arm PSA best practices on nRF devices and enforcing correct transition or usage of the PSA lifecycle states.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * :ref:`tfm_psa_template`, providing a template for Arm PSA best practices on nRF devices and enforcing correct transition and usage of the PSA lifecycle states.
```

    * The compiler option ``--defsym`` is used instead of ``--wrap``.

MCUboot
=======

The MCUboot fork in |NCS| (``sdk-mcuboot``) contains all commits from the upstream MCUboot repository up to and including ``cfec947e0f8be686d02c73104a3b1ad0b5dcf1e6``, with some |NCS| specific additions.

The code for integrating MCUboot into |NCS| is located in the :file:`ncs/nrf/modules/mcuboot` folder.

The following list summarizes both the main changes inherited from upstream MCUboot and the main changes applied to the |NCS| specific additions:

* Added:

  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_USE_NRF53_MULTI_IMAGE_WITHOUT_UPGRADE_ONLY` Kconfig option to specify that you want to use nRF53 multi-image upgrade without the upgrade only setting in MCUboot.
    Enabling this option has drawbacks.
    See the :ref:`ug_nrf5340` user guide for details.
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_EXTERNAL_FLASH_HAS_DRIVER` Kconfig option.
    When set, it makes MCUboot fail to boot when the external flash memory is used for non-primary application images with the driver for the external flash memory not enabled.

>     See :ref:`ug_bootloader_external_flash` and :ref:`pm_external_flash` for details.

Reviewer 4: This is not added to MCUboot, rather to Partition Manager, but affects MCUboot as described.
This option can not be selected by user configuration, only other Kconfig can select it, for example Kconfig for driver that provides support for external flash.

Author: Moved this entry to partition manager section after offline discussions.

Zephyr
======

.. NOTE TO MAINTAINERS: All the Zephyr commits in the below git commands must be handled specially after each upmerge and each NCS release.

The Zephyr fork in |NCS| (``sdk-zephyr``) contains all commits from the upstream Zephyr repository up to and including ``cd16a8388f71a6cce0cea871f75f6d4ac8f56da9``, with some |NCS| specific additions.

For the list of upstream Zephyr commits (not including cherry-picked commits) incorporated into nRF Connect SDK since the most recent release, run the following command from the :file:`ncs/zephyr` repository (after running ``west update``):

.. code-block:: none

>    git log --oneline cd16a8388f ^45ef0d2

Reviewer 5: @nordicjm @mbolivar-nordic @rlubos is this `45ef0d2` correct?

Reviewer 5: I think this should be `71ef669ea4` instead of `45ef0d2`

Reviewer 6: I agree, `71ef669ea4` is the last upstream commit under `v3.1.99-ncs1` tag (previous release).

Reviewer 7: Yes, it should be `71ef669ea4`. With `45ef0d2` this gives the commits between 2.2.0 and 2.0.0.

Author: Changed 45ef0d2 to 71ef669ea4.

For the list of |NCS| specific commits, including commits cherry-picked from upstream, run:

.. code-block:: none

   git log --oneline manifest-rev ^cd16a8388f

The current |NCS| main branch is based on revision ``cd16a8388f`` of Zephyr.

> Additions specific to |NCS|

Author: @carlescufi anything to add here?

    * :ref:`ug_matter_overview_security`, which is based on an earlier subsection of :ref:`ug_matter_overview_network_topologies`.
    * :ref:`ug_matter_device_certification_reqs_security` on the page about :ref:`ug_matter_device_certification`.

* Updated:

  * :ref:`ug_matter_overview_int_model` with an example of the interaction.
  * :ref:`ug_matter_overview_data_model` with an example of the Data Model of a door lock device.
  * :ref:`ug_matter_gs_adding_cluster` documentation with new code snippets to align it with the source code of refactored Matter template sample.

See `Matter samples`_ for the list of changes for the Matter samples.

Matter fork
+++++++++++

The Matter fork in the |NCS| (``sdk-connectedhomeip``) contains all commits from the upstream Matter repository up to, and including, ``bc6b43882a56ddb3e94d3e64956bd5f3292b4058``.

The following list summarizes the most important changes inherited from the upstream Matter:

* |no_changes_yet_note|

Thread
------

* Added experimental TCP support as required by Thread 1.3 Specification.

See `Thread samples`_ for the list of changes for the Thread samples.

> HomeKit

Reviewer 8: As confirmed with @mariusz-nordicsemi , this section should be removed as there are no items to be listed for this release

Author: thanks for checking!

* Updated the service info JSON payload to use ``GNSS`` instead of ``GPS``.
* Removed automatic quit of data mode in GNSS, FTP and HTTP services.

nRF5340 Audio
-------------

* Added:

  * Kconfig options for different sample rates and BAP presets.
  * Bidirectional mode for the CIS mode.
  * A walkie talkie demo for bidirectional CIS.
  * Minimal Media Control Service (MCS) functionality to the Play/Pause button.
  * Coordinated Set Identification Service (CSIS) for the CIS headset.
  * Functionality for supporting multiple streams on BIS headsets.

* Updated:

  * LE Audio Controller Subsystem for nRF53 from version 3303 to version 3307.
    This version provides improved Android compatibility.
  * Removed support for the nRF5340 Audio DK (PCA10121) board version 0.7.1 or older.

* Fixed:

  * An issue with the figure for :ref:`nrf53_audio_app_overview_architecture_i2s` in the :ref:`nrf53_audio_app` documentation.
    The figure now correctly shows the interaction with the Bluetooth modules.
  * An issue with Simple Management Protocol (SMP) not advertising in the CIS mode.
  * An issue with the ``mcumgr`` command being unable to receive in the BIS mode.

>   * A documentation issue where the Testing FOTA upgrades section would not mention long-pressing **BTN 4** while resetting the development kit to start DFU.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
  * The Testing FOTA upgrades section in the documentation did not mention long-pressing **BTN 4** while resetting the development kit to start DFU.
    This has now been added to the documentation.
```

      An overlay file is provided for building with the LwM2M support and an optional overlay to enable P-GPS.
  * Removed A-GPS and P-GPS processing; it is now handled by the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library.

* :ref:`location_sample` sample:

  * Added overlay files for nRF9160 DK with nRF7002 EK to obtain the current location by using Wi-Fi scanning results.

* :ref:`lte_sensor_gateway` sample:

  * Added handling for the new data receive events in the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library.
  * Removed A-GPS and P-GPS processing; it is now handled by the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library.

* :ref:`nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service` sample:

  * Added:

    * Support for the :ref:`lib_location` library Wi-Fi location method with the nRF7002 EK.
    * Handling for the new data receive events in the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library.
    * Board overlay file for nRF9160 DK with external flash.
    * Overlay file to enable P-GPS data storage in external flash.

  * Removed A-GPS and P-GPS processing; it is now handled by the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library.

Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) samples
---------------------------------

* Added:

>   * :ref:`tfm_psa_test` for validating compliance with PSA certified requirements.

Reviewer 10: I think the actual name of the framework is PSA Certified.
```suggestion
  * :ref:`tfm_psa_test` for validating compliance with Arm Platform Security Architecture (PSA) Certified requirements.
```

  * :ref:`tfm_regression_test` to run secure and non-secure Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) regression tests.

>   * :ref:`tfm_psa_template`: Reference sample providing a template for Arm Platform Security Architecture (PSA) best practices on nRF devices.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
  * :ref:`tfm_psa_template` providing a template for Arm PSA best practices on nRF devices.
```

  * :ref:`provisioning_image` sample that provisions the device in a manner compatible with Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M).

Thread samples
--------------

* :ref:`ot_cli_sample` sample:

  * Removed the Thread Certification support files in favor of regular sample overlays.

Matter samples
--------------

* Updated ZAP configuration of the samples to conform with device types defined in Matter 1.0 specification.

* :ref:`matter_light_bulb_sample` sample:

  * Added support for Matter over Wi-Fi on standalone ``nrf7002dk_nrf5340_cpuapp`` and on ``nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp`` with the ``nrf7002_ek`` shield attached.

nRF5340 samples
---------------

* :ref:`multiprotocol-rpmsg-sample` sample:

>   * Updated by decreasing the maximum supported number of concurrent Bluetooth LE connections to four.

Author: Retaining as is to have consistency.

      The option can be used to move the Bluetooth device name to the advertising data.

  * Updated:

    * :c:member:`bt_le_adv_prov_adv_state.bond_cnt` is changed to :c:member:`bt_le_adv_prov_adv_state.pairing_mode`.
      The information about whether the advertising device is looking for a new peer is more meaningful for the Bluetooth LE data providers.

* :ref:`nrf_bt_scan_readme`:

  * Added the ability to use the module when the Bluetooth Observer role is enabled.

* :ref:`bt_fast_pair_readme` service:

  * Added:

    * API to check Account Key presence (:c:func:`bt_fast_pair_has_account_key`).
    * Support for the Personalized Name extension.
    * Support for the Battery Notification extension.

  * Updated the library by disabling automatic security re-establishment request as a peripheral (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_GATT_AUTO_SEC_REQ`) to allow the Fast Pair Seeker to control the security re-establishment.

* :ref:`bt_mesh` library:

  * Added the vendor :ref:`bt_mesh_dm_readme` supporting distance measurement between Bluetooth mesh devices.
  * Updated the Bluetooth mesh client models to reflect the changed mesh shell module structure.

>     All Bluetooth mesh model commands are now located under **mesh models** in the shell menu.

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
    All Bluetooth mesh model commands are now located under **mesh models** in the shell menu.
  * Removed Kconfig options controlling timing and delta for the :ref:`bt_mesh_silvair_enocean_srv_readme`.
    These values are now specified in the specification and cannot be changed.
```

Author: Added

* :ref:`bt_mesh_dk_prov` module:

  * Updated the UUID generation to prevent trailing zeros in the UUID.
    Migration note: To retain the legacy generation of UUID, enable the option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_DK_LEGACY_UUID_GEN`.

See `Bluetooth mesh samples`_ for the list of changes for the Bluetooth mesh samples.

Bootloader libraries
--------------------

* :ref:`doc_bl_storage` library:

  * Added:

    * PSA compatible lifecycle state.
    * PSA compatible implementation ID.

  * Removed the option of application using the library to read OTP memory when the |NSIB| (NSIB) is enabled.

Modem libraries
---------------

* Added the :ref:`at_custom_cmd_readme` library to add custom AT commands with application callbacks.

* :ref:`modem_info_readme` library:

  * Removed:

    * :c:func:`modem_info_json_string_encode` and :c:func:`modem_info_json_object_encode` functions.
    * ``network_mode`` field from :c:struct:`network_param`.
    * ``MODEM_INFO_NETWORK_MODE_MAX_SIZE``.

>     * ``CONFIG_MODEM_INFO_ADD_BOARD``.

Author: @divipillai could you check?

>     * ``CONFIG_MODEM_INFO_ADD_BOARD``.

Reviewer 12: MODEM_INFO_NETWORK_MODE_MAX_SIZE is define (:macro:). But as these are removed, shouldn't they be in backticks?

    * An issue where the :c:func:`recvfrom` function causes segmentation fault when the ``from`` and ``fromlen`` parameters are provided as ``NULL``.

* :ref:`lib_location` library:

  * Added:

    * Timeout for the entire location request.
    * Location data details such as entire PVT data.
    * MQTT support for nRF Cloud Wi-Fi positioning.
    * Improved LTE-GNSS interworking and added possibility to trigger GNSS priority mode if GNSS does not get long-enough time windows due to LTE idle mode operations.

  * Updated:

    * Location method has been moved from the :c:struct:`location_data` structure to :c:struct:`location_event_data`.
    * The library now uses :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_location` library for nRF Cloud Wi-Fi positioning.

* :ref:`lte_lc_readme` library:

  * Added support for GCI (Global Cell ID) neighbor cell measurement search types, which are supported by the modem firmware versions from and including v1.3.4.

   * Updated:

     * Parameter type in the :c:func:`lte_lc_neighbor_cell_measurement` function changed to :c:struct:`lte_lc_ncellmeas_params`.

>        It includes both search type and GCI count that have an impact only with GCI search types.

Reviewer 9: with or on GCI search types?

* :ref:`modem_key_mgmt` library:

  * Added:

    * The ``-EALREADY`` return value for the :c:func:`modem_key_mgmt_write` function when the credential already exists and cannot be overwritten.
    * The ``-ECANCELED`` return value for the :c:func:`modem_key_mgmt_write` and :c:func:`modem_key_mgmt_delete` functions when the voltage is low.

  * Updated:

    * All the functions to return ``-EACCES`` instead of ``-EPERM`` when the access to the credential is not allowed.
    * All the functions to return ``-EPERM`` instead of ``-EACCES`` when the operation is not permitted because the LTE link is active.

* Renamed the AT SMS Cert library to :ref:`lib_gcf_sms_readme`.
  The :ref:`lib_gcf_sms_readme` library now uses the :ref:`at_custom_cmd_readme` library to register filtered AT commands.

Libraries for networking
------------------------

> * Added :ref:`lib_lwm2m_location_assistance` library that has support for using A-GPS, P-GPS and ground fix assistance from nRF Cloud using an LwM2M server.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
* Added :ref:`lib_lwm2m_location_assistance` library that supports using A-GPS, P-GPS and ground fix assistance from nRF Cloud through an LwM2M server.
```

* :ref:`lib_multicell_location` library:

  * Removed the Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MULTICELL_LOCATION_MAX_NEIGHBORS`.

>     The maximum number of supported neighbor cell measurements for HERE location services depends on the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LTE_NEIGHBOR_CELLS_MAX` Kconfig option.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    The maximum number of supported neighbor cell measurements for HERE location services depends on the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LTE_NEIGHBOR_CELLS_MAX` Kconfig option.

```

* :ref:`lib_download_client` library:

>   * Updated the library so that it does not retry download on disconnect.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
  * Updated the library not to retry download on disconnect.
```

  * Fixed a race condition when starting the download.

* :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library:

  * Added:

    * A possibility to override used default OS memory alloc/free functions.
    * More unit tests for the library.
    * Events :c:enum:`NRF_CLOUD_EVT_RX_DATA_CELL_POS` and :c:enum:`NRF_CLOUD_EVT_RX_DATA_SHADOW`.

  * Updated:

    * The stack size of the MQTT connection monitoring thread can now be adjusted by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_CLOUD_CONNECTION_POLL_THREAD_STACK_SIZE` Kconfig option.
    * The library now subscribes to a wildcard cloud-to-device (/c2d) topic.
      This enables the device to receive nRF Cloud Location Services data on separate topics.
    * The event :c:enum:`NRF_CLOUD_EVT_RX_DATA` is replaced with :c:enum:`NRF_CLOUD_EVT_RX_DATA_GENERAL`.
    * The library now processes A-GPS and P-GPS data; it is no longer passed to the application.
    * The status field of :c:enum:`NRF_CLOUD_EVT_ERROR` events uses values from the enumeration :c:enumerator:`nrf_cloud_error_status`.
    * UI service info and sensor type strings now refer to ``GNSS`` instead of ``GPS``.

>     * The enumeration value ``NRF_CLOUD_EVT_RX_DATA_CELL_POS`` is now named :c:enum:`NRF_CLOUD_EVT_RX_DATA_LOCATION`.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    * Renamed the enumeration value ``NRF_CLOUD_EVT_RX_DATA_CELL_POS`` to :c:enum:`NRF_CLOUD_EVT_RX_DATA_LOCATION`.
```

  * Fixed:

    * An issue where zero predictions would be requested from the cloud.
    * An issue where subsequent updates were locked out after the first one completes.
      This happened when custom download transport was not used.

* Renamed the nRF Cloud cellular positioning library to :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_location`.
  In addition to cellular location, the library now supports device location from nRF Cloud using Wi-Fi network information.

Libraries for NFC
-----------------

* :ref:`lib_nfc_ndef`:

  * Fixed a write to a constant field in the :c:func:`ac_rec_payload_parse` function.

* :ref:`nfc_t4t_isodep_readme`:

  * Fixed out of bounds access in the :c:func:`ats_parse` function.

nRF RPC libraries
-----------------

* |no_changes_yet_note|

Other libraries
---------------

* Added:

  * :ref:`lib_sfloat` library.
  * :ref:`lib_hw_id` library to retrieve a unique hardware ID.

* :ref:`emds_readme` library:

  * Updated the library implementation to bypass the flash driver when storing the emergency data.
    This allows calling the :c:func:`emds_store` function from an interrupt context.

  * Removed the internal thread for storing the emergency data.

>     The emergency data is now stored by the :c:func:`emds_store` function.

Reviewer 9: Should we have the separate bullets for "Updated" and "Removed" here?

* :ref:`mod_dm` module:

  * Added a window length configuration to be used runtime, when a new measurement request is added.

  * Updated:

    * The calculation of MPSL timeslot length has been improved by using the :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_dm` functionality.
    * Renamed the ``access_address`` field to ``rng_seed`` in the :c:struct:`dm_request` structure.

* :ref:`app_event_manager`:

  * Added :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_APP_EVENT_MANAGER_SHELL` Kconfig option.
    The option can be used to disable Event Manager shell commands.

* :ref:`nrf_profiler`:

  * Added the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NRF_PROFILER_SHELL` Kconfig option.
    The option can be used to disable the nRF Profiler shell commands.

Common Application Framework (CAF)
----------------------------------

* :ref:`caf_ble_state`:

  * Added :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_BLE_STATE_MAX_LOCAL_ID_BONDS`.

>     The option allows to specify the maximum number of allowed bonds per Bluetooth local identity for a Bluetooth Peripheral.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    The option allows to specify the maximum number of allowed bonds in each Bluetooth local identity for a Bluetooth Peripheral.
```
We are supposed to avoid the Latin-based words like "per", "via" and so forth, right?

Author: Yes. Fixed.

* :ref:`caf_sensor_manager`:

  * Added:

>     * Dynamic control for the :ref:`sensor sample period<sensor_sample_period>`.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    * Dynamic control for the :ref:`sensor sample period <sensor_sample_period>`.
```

  * Added:

    * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_ALIGN_SETTINGS_STORAGE` Kconfig option to specify the alignment of the settings storage partition.
    * P-GPS partition section to the :file:`ncs/nrf/subsys/partition_manager/Kconfig` file.
    * Board-specific static Partition Manager configuration shared among build types.
      The configuration can be defined in the board's directory.

  * Updated the :file:`ncs/nrf/subsys/partition_manager/pm.yml.pgps` file to place P-GPS partition in external flash when so configured.

  * Fixed:

    * An issue with the driver and devicetree symbol for the external flash memory where the driver was sometimes NULL, even if the DT node was chosen.

MCUboot
=======

The MCUboot fork in |NCS| (``sdk-mcuboot``) contains all commits from the upstream MCUboot repository up to and including ``cfec947e0f8be686d02c73104a3b1ad0b5dcf1e6``, plus some |NCS| specific additions.

The code for integrating MCUboot into |NCS| is located in the :file:`ncs/nrf/modules/mcuboot` folder.

The following list summarizes both the main changes inherited from upstream MCUboot and the main changes applied to the |NCS| specific additions:

* Added:

>   * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_USE_NRF53_MULTI_IMAGE_WITHOUT_UPGRADE_ONLY` Kconfig option to specify that you want to use nRF53 multi-image upgrade without the upgrade only setting set in MCUBoot.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_USE_NRF53_MULTI_IMAGE_WITHOUT_UPGRADE_ONLY` Kconfig option to specify that you want to use nRF53 multi-image upgrade without the upgrade only setting in MCUBoot.
```

    Enabling this option has drawbacks.
    See the :ref:`ug_nrf5340` user guide for details.
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_EXTERNAL_FLASH_HAS_DRIVER` Kconfig option.
    When set, it makes MCUboot fail to boot when the external flash memory is used for non-primary application images with the driver for the external flash memory not enabled.
    See :ref:`ug_bootloader_external_flash` and :ref:`pm_external_flash` for details.

Zephyr
======

.. NOTE TO MAINTAINERS: All the Zephyr commits in the below git commands must be handled specially after each upmerge and each NCS release.

> The Zephyr fork in |NCS| (``sdk-zephyr``) contains all commits from the upstream Zephyr repository up to and including ``cd16a8388f71a6cce0cea871f75f6d4ac8f56da9``, plus some |NCS| specific additions.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
The Zephyr fork in |NCS| (``sdk-zephyr``) contains all commits from the upstream Zephyr repository up to and including ``cd16a8388f71a6cce0cea871f75f6d4ac8f56da9``, with some |NCS| specific additions.
```

Matter
------

* Added:

  * Documentation pages:

    * :ref:`ug_matter_overview_dfu`.
    * :ref:`ug_matter_overview_multi_fabrics` and entry about binding to :ref:`ug_matter_network_topologies_concepts`.
    * :ref:`ug_matter_overview_commissioning`, which is based on an earlier subsection of :ref:`ug_matter_overview_network_topologies`.
    * :ref:`ug_matter_overview_security`, which is based on an earlier subsection of :ref:`ug_matter_overview_network_topologies`.
    * :ref:`ug_matter_device_certification_reqs_security` on the page about :ref:`ug_matter_device_certification`.

* Updated:

  * :ref:`ug_matter_device_certification` with several new sections that provide an overview of the certification process.
  * :ref:`ug_matter_overview_int_model` with an example of the interaction.
  * :ref:`ug_matter_overview_data_model` with an example of the Data Model of a door lock device.
  * :ref:`ug_matter_gs_adding_cluster` documentation with new code snippets to align it with the source code of refactored Matter template sample.

See `Matter samples`_ for the list of changes for the Matter samples.

Matter fork
+++++++++++

> The Matter fork in the |NCS| (``sdk-connectedhomeip``) contains all commits from the upstream Matter repository up to, and including, ``bc6b43882a56ddb3e94d3e64956bd5f3292b4058``.

Author: @LuDuda please check.

Author: Also line 182...(changes from upstream)

  * The UUID16 values of GATT Human Interface Device Service (HIDS) and GATT Battery Service (BAS) have been moved from advertising data to scan response data.
  * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_GATT_SERVICE_CHANGED` Kconfig option is disabled on nRF Desktop dongles to reduce memory footprint.
  * The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_ID_UNPAIR_MATCHING_BONDS` is now enabled by default.
    This is done to pass the Fast Pair Validator's end-to-end integration tests and to improve the user experience during the erase advertising procedure.

Samples
=======

This section provides detailed lists of changes by :ref:`sample <sample>`, including protocol-related samples.
For lists of protocol-specific changes, see `Protocols`_.

Bluetooth samples
-----------------

* Added the :ref:`peripheral_cgms` sample.

* :ref:`ble_throughput` sample:

  * Added terminal commands for selecting the role.
  * Updated the ASCII art used for showing progress to feature the current Nordic Semiconductor logo.

* :ref:`peripheral_fast_pair` sample:

  * Added:

    * Bond removal functionality.
    * Battery information to demonstrate the Fast Pair Battery Notification extension.

> 

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
* TX power correction value to align the advertised TX power with the Fast Pair expectations.

```

Reviewer 13: We've fixed a bug in this PR: https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/9573

Author: Added

      This allows cancelling any update packages even if they are already marked to be updated.

MPSL libraries
--------------

* Added :ref:`mpsl_lib`.

sdk-nrfxlib
-----------

See the changelog for each library in the :doc:`nrfxlib documentation <nrfxlib:README>` for additional information.

Scripts
=======

* :ref:`west_sbom`:

  * Updated the SPDX License List database to version 3.18.

* :ref:`partition_manager`:

  * Added:

    * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_ALIGN_SETTINGS_STORAGE` Kconfig option to specify the alignment of the settings storage partition.
    * P-GPS partition section to the :file:`ncs/nrf/subsys/partition_manager/Kconfig` file.
    * Board-specific static Partition Manager configuration shared among build types.
      The configuration can be defined in the board's directory.

  * Updated the :file:`ncs/nrf/subsys/partition_manager/pm.yml.pgps` file to place P-GPS partition in external flash when so configured.

  * Fixed:

    * An issue with the driver and devicetree symbol for the external flash memory where the driver was sometimes NULL, even if the DT node was chosen.

MCUboot

> =======

Reviewer 14: no comment form my side.
@nordicjm

    See :ref:`ug_bootloader_external_flash` and :ref:`pm_external_flash` for details.

Zephyr
======

.. NOTE TO MAINTAINERS: All the Zephyr commits in the below git commands must be handled specially after each upmerge and each NCS release.

The Zephyr fork in |NCS| (``sdk-zephyr``) contains all commits from the upstream Zephyr repository up to and including ``cd16a8388f71a6cce0cea871f75f6d4ac8f56da9``, with some |NCS| specific additions.

For the list of upstream Zephyr commits (not including cherry-picked commits) incorporated into nRF Connect SDK since the most recent release, run the following command from the :file:`ncs/zephyr` repository (after running ``west update``):

.. code-block:: none

   git log --oneline cd16a8388f ^45ef0d2

For the list of |NCS| specific commits, including commits cherry-picked from upstream, run:

.. code-block:: none

   git log --oneline manifest-rev ^cd16a8388f

The current |NCS| main branch is based on revision ``cd16a8388f`` of Zephyr.

Additions specific to |NCS|
---------------------------

* |no_changes_yet_note|

zcbor
=====

* |no_changes_yet_note|

Trusted Firmware-M
==================

* Added:

>   * Reading, updating, and attesting the lifecycle state stored in nRF OTP.

Reviewer 3: We can add something like: 
Supporting provisioning as described  in the Platform Security Architecture (PSA) security model.

Author: Added

  * Support for LE Set Data Related Address Changes HCI command.
  * Support for changing advertising randomness using :c:func:`sdc_hci_cmd_vs_set_adv_randomness`.
  * Support for enabling the sending of Periodic Advertising Sync Transfer (PAST) using dedicated functions such as :c:func:`sdc_support_periodic_adv_sync_transfer_sender_central`.
  * Experimental support for the LE Power Control Request feature.

For details, see the :ref:`SoftDevice Controller changelog <nrfxlib:softdevice_controller_changelog>`.

Bluetooth mesh
--------------

* Added:

  * Documentation pages:

    * :ref:`ug_bt_mesh_fota`.
    * :ref:`ug_bt_mesh_node_removal`.

Also, see `Bluetooth mesh samples`_ for the list of changes.

Enhanced ShockBurst (ESB)
-------------------------

* Added the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_ESB_DYNAMIC_INTERRUPTS` Kconfig option to enable direct dynamic interrupts.

nRF IEEE 802.15.4 radio driver
------------------------------

* Added the functionality where Radio trim values are reapplied after a ``POWER`` register write as a workaround for the hardware Errata 158 of the nRF5340 chip.

Matter
------

> * Added:
> 
>   * Documentation pages:
> 
>     * :ref:`ug_matter_overview_dfu`.
>     * :ref:`ug_matter_overview_multi_fabrics` and entry about binding to :ref:`ug_matter_network_topologies_concepts`.
>     * :ref:`ug_matter_overview_commissioning`, which is based on an earlier subsection of :ref:`ug_matter_overview_network_topologies`.
>     * :ref:`ug_matter_overview_security`, which is based on an earlier subsection of :ref:`ug_matter_overview_network_topologies`.
>     * :ref:`ug_matter_device_certification_reqs_security` on the page about :ref:`ug_matter_device_certification`.

Reviewer 15: ```suggestion
* Added the following documentation pages:

    * :ref:`ug_matter_overview_dfu`.
    * :ref:`ug_matter_overview_multi_fabrics` and entry about binding to :ref:`ug_matter_network_topologies_concepts`.
    * :ref:`ug_matter_overview_commissioning`, which is based on an earlier subsection of :ref:`ug_matter_overview_network_topologies`.
    * :ref:`ug_matter_overview_security`, which is based on an earlier subsection of :ref:`ug_matter_overview_network_topologies`.
    * :ref:`ug_matter_device_certification_reqs_security` on the page about :ref:`ug_matter_device_certification`.
```
I think we can skip one level, as all entries are from the same category?

* :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_light_lc` sample:

  * Updated:

    * The :c:func:`bt_disable` function call has been removed from the interrupt context before calling the :c:func:`emds_store` function.
    * The :c:func:`mpsl_uninit` function has been replaced with :c:func:`mpsl_lib_uninit`.

nRF9160 samples
---------------

* Added :ref:`modem_trace_flash` sample that demonstrates how to add a modem trace backend that stores the trace data to external flash.

* :ref:`lwm2m_client` sample:

  * Added:

    * Ability to use buttons to generate location assistance requests.
    * Documentation on :ref:`lwmwm_client_testing_shell`.

  * Updated:

    * The sample now uses the new LwM2M location assistance objects through the :ref:`lib_lwm2m_location_assistance` library.
    * Removed all read callbacks from sensor code because of an issue of read callbacks not working properly when used with LwM2M observations.
      This is due to the fact that the engine does not know when data is changed.
    * Sensor samples are now enabled by default for Thingy:91 and disabled by default on nRF9160 DK.

* :ref:`modem_shell_application` sample:

  * Added:

>     * The functionality where **LED 1** (nRF9160 DK)/Purple LED (Thingy:91) is lit for five seconds indicating that a current location has been acquired by using the ``location get`` command.

Reviewer 16: ```suggestion
    * The functionality where **LED 1** (nRF9160 DK)/Purple LED (Thingy:91) is lit for five seconds indicating that the current location has been acquired by using the ``location get`` command.
```

    * Overlay files for nRF9160 DK with nRF7002 EK to enable Wi-Fi scanning support.
      With this configuration, you can, for example, obtain the current location using the ``location get`` command.
    * Support for new GCI (Global Cell ID) search types for ``link ncellmeas`` command, which are supported by the modem firmware versions from and including 1.3.4.
    * Handling for the new data receive events in the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library.
    * Support for connecting to cloud using the :ref:`lib_lwm2m_client_utils` library.
      An overlay file is provided for building with the LwM2M support and an optional overlay to enable P-GPS.

>   * Removed A-GPS and P-GPS processing; it is now handled by the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library.

Reviewer 16: ```suggestion
  * Removed A-GPS and P-GPS processing.
     It is now handled by the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library.
```

* :ref:`location_sample` sample:

  * Added overlay files for nRF9160 DK with nRF7002 EK to obtain the current location by using Wi-Fi scanning results.

* :ref:`lte_sensor_gateway` sample:

  * Added handling for the new data receive events in the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library.

>   * Removed A-GPS and P-GPS processing; it is now handled by the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library.

Reviewer 16: ```suggestion
  * Removed A-GPS and P-GPS processing. It is now handled by the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library.
```
```suggestion
  * Removed A-GPS and P-GPS processing.
     It is now handled by the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library.
```

* :ref:`nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service` sample:

  * Added:

    * Support for the :ref:`lib_location` library Wi-Fi location method with the nRF7002 EK.
    * Handling for the new data receive events in the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library.
    * Board overlay file for nRF9160 DK with external flash.
    * Overlay file to enable P-GPS data storage in external flash.

>   * Removed A-GPS and P-GPS processing; it is now handled by the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library.

Reviewer 16: ```suggestion
  * Removed A-GPS and P-GPS processing.
     It is now handled by the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library.
```

Wi-Fi samples
-------------

* Added:

  * :ref:`wifi_radio_test` sample with the radio test support and :ref:`subcommands for FICR/OTP programming <wifi_ficr_prog>`.
  * :ref:`wifi_scan_sample` sample that demonstrates how to scan for the access points.
  * :ref:`wifi_station_sample` sample that demonstrates how to connect the Wi-Fi station to a specified access point.
  * :ref:`wifi_provisioning` sample that demonstrates how to provision a device with Nordic Semiconductor's Wi-Fi chipsets over Bluetooth® Low Energy.

* :ref:`wifi_shell_sample` sample:

  * Added configuration support for the Wi-Fi power saving feature.

Other samples
-------------

* Added :ref:`hw_id_sample` sample.
* :ref:`radio_test` sample:

  * Added:

    * Support for the :ref:`nrfxlib:mpsl_fem` TX power split feature.
      The new ``total_output_power`` shell command is introduced for sample builds with front-end module support.
      It enables automatic setting of the SoC output power in a radio peripheral and front-end module gain to achieve requested output power or less if an exact value is not supported.

>     * Support for +1 dBm, +2 dBm and +3 dBm output power on nRF5340 DK.

Reviewer 16: ```suggestion
    * Support for +1 dBm, +2 dBm, and +3 dBm output power on nRF5340 DK.
```

  * Updated the parameter type in the :c:func:`lte_lc_neighbor_cell_measurement` function to :c:struct:`lte_lc_ncellmeas_params`.
    It includes both search type and GCI count that have an impact only on GCI search types.

* :ref:`modem_key_mgmt` library:

  * Added:

    * The ``-EALREADY`` return value for the :c:func:`modem_key_mgmt_write` function when the credential already exists and cannot be overwritten.
    * The ``-ECANCELED`` return value for the :c:func:`modem_key_mgmt_write` and :c:func:`modem_key_mgmt_delete` functions when the voltage is low.

  * Updated:

    * All the functions to return ``-EACCES`` instead of ``-EPERM`` when the access to the credential is not allowed.
    * All the functions to return ``-EPERM`` instead of ``-EACCES`` when the operation is not permitted because the LTE link is active.

* Renamed the AT SMS Cert library to :ref:`lib_gcf_sms_readme`.
  The :ref:`lib_gcf_sms_readme` library now uses the :ref:`at_custom_cmd_readme` library to register filtered AT commands.

Libraries for networking
------------------------

> * Added :ref:`lib_lwm2m_location_assistance` library that supports using A-GPS, P-GPS and ground fix assistance from nRF Cloud through an LwM2M server.

Reviewer 16: ```suggestion
* Added :ref:`lib_lwm2m_location_assistance` library that supports using A-GPS, P-GPS, and ground fix assistance from nRF Cloud through an LwM2M server.
```

* :ref:`lib_multicell_location` library:

  * Removed the Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MULTICELL_LOCATION_MAX_NEIGHBORS`.
    The maximum number of supported neighbor cell measurements for HERE location services depends on the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LTE_NEIGHBOR_CELLS_MAX` Kconfig option.

* :ref:`lib_download_client` library:

>   * Updated the library not to retry download on disconnect.

Reviewer 16: ```suggestion
  * Updated the library so that it does not retry download on disconnect.
```

* :ref:`caf_sensor_manager`:

  * Added:

    * Dynamic control for the :ref:`sensor sample period <sensor_sample_period>`.
    * Test for the sample.

DFU libraries
-------------
* :ref:`lib_dfu_target` library:

  * Added new types :c:enum:`DFU_TARGET_IMAGE_TYPE_ANY_MODEM` and :c:enum:`DFU_TARGET_IMAGE_TYPE_ANY_APPLICATION`.
    This makes any supported modem update type acceptable when downloading.

  * Updated the library such that calling the :c:func:`dfu_target_reset()` function clears all images that have already been downloaded into a target area.
    This allows cancelling any update packages even if they are already marked to be updated.

MPSL libraries
--------------

* Added :ref:`mpsl_lib`.

sdk-nrfxlib
-----------

See the changelog for each library in the :doc:`nrfxlib documentation <nrfxlib:README>` for additional information.

Scripts
=======

* :ref:`west_sbom`:

  * Updated the SPDX License List database to version 3.18.

* :ref:`partition_manager`:

  * Added:

    * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_ALIGN_SETTINGS_STORAGE` Kconfig option to specify the alignment of the settings storage partition.

>     * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_EXTERNAL_FLASH_HAS_DRIVER` Kconfig option.
>       When set, it makes MCUboot fail to boot when the external flash memory is used for non-primary application images with the driver for the external flash memory not enabled.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_EXTERNAL_FLASH_HAS_DRIVER` Kconfig option.
      Should be selected by drivers providing support for external flash, it is automatically selected by :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NORDIC_QSPI_NOR` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SPI_NOR`.  MCUboot may fail to boot when the external flash memory is used, for non-primary application images, while the driver for the external flash memory not enabled.
```

.. _ncs_release_notes_220:

|NCS| v2.2.0 Release Notes
##########################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

|NCS| delivers reference software and supporting libraries for developing low-power wireless applications with Nordic Semiconductor products in the nRF52, nRF53, nRF70, and nRF91 Series.
The SDK includes open source projects (TF-M, MCUboot, OpenThread, Matter, and the Zephyr RTOS), which are continuously integrated and redistributed with the SDK.

Release notes might refer to "experimental" support for features, which indicates that the feature is incomplete in functionality or verification, and can be expected to change in future releases.
To learn more, see :ref:`software_maturity`.

Highlights
**********

The following list includes the summary of the most relevant changes introduced in this release.

* Added :ref:`support <software_maturity>` for the following features:

  * Connected AoA transmitter.

>   * Wi-Fi location in nRF Cloud Location Services.
> * Added :ref:`experimental support <software_maturity>` for the following features:

Reviewer 15: ```suggestion
  * Wi-Fi location in nRF Cloud Location Services.
 
* Added :ref:`experimental support <software_maturity>` for the following features:
```

Author: Fixed

    When enabled, it uninitializes MPSL when :c:func:`bt_disable` is used.
    This releases all peripherals used by the MPSL.
  * Support for Connection CTE Response in the angle of arrival (AoA) configuration.
  * Support for LE Set Data Related Address Changes HCI command.
  * Support for changing advertising randomness using :c:func:`sdc_hci_cmd_vs_set_adv_randomness`.
  * Support for enabling the sending of Periodic Advertising Sync Transfer (PAST) using dedicated functions such as :c:func:`sdc_support_periodic_adv_sync_transfer_sender_central`.
  * Experimental support for the LE Power Control Request feature.

For details, see the :ref:`SoftDevice Controller changelog <nrfxlib:softdevice_controller_changelog>`.

Bluetooth mesh
--------------

* Added:

  * Documentation pages:

    * :ref:`ug_bt_mesh_fota`.
    * :ref:`ug_bt_mesh_node_removal`.

Also, see `Bluetooth mesh samples`_ for the list of changes.

Enhanced ShockBurst (ESB)
-------------------------

* Added the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_ESB_DYNAMIC_INTERRUPTS` Kconfig option to enable direct dynamic interrupts.

nRF IEEE 802.15.4 radio driver
------------------------------

> * Added the functionality where Radio trim values are reapplied after a ``POWER`` register write as a workaround for the hardware Errata 158 of the nRF5340 chip.

Reviewer 17: ```suggestion
* Added:

  * Functionality where Radio trim values are reapplied after a ``POWER`` register write as a workaround for the hardware Errata 158 of the nRF5340 chip.
  * API that allows for Coordinated Sampled Listening (CSL) Phase calculation based on an absolute anchor time and CSL Period.
  
```

Author: Added

For lists of protocol-specific changes, see `Protocols`_.

Bluetooth samples
-----------------

* Added the :ref:`peripheral_cgms` sample.

* :ref:`ble_throughput` sample:

  * Added terminal commands for selecting the role.
  * Updated the ASCII art used for showing progress to feature the current Nordic Semiconductor logo.

* :ref:`peripheral_fast_pair` sample:

  * Added:

    * Bond removal functionality.
    * Battery information to demonstrate the Fast Pair Battery Notification extension.
    * TX power correction value to align the advertised TX power with the Fast Pair expectations.

  * Updated:

    * The sample now uses :ref:`bt_le_adv_prov_readme` to generate Bluetooth advertising and scan response data.
    * The advertising pairing mode (:c:member:`bt_le_adv_prov_adv_state.pairing_mode`) is enabled only in the Fast Pair discoverable advertising mode.
      The device also rejects normal Bluetooth LE pairing when not in the pairing mode.
    * After the device reaches the maximum number of paired devices (set by :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MAX_PAIRED`), the device stops looking for new peers.

>       Therefore, the Fast Pair payload is no longer included in the advertising data.

Reviewer 18: This is not valid. It should be:

` The device no longer advertises with the pairing mode (:c:member:bt_le_adv_prov_adv_state.pairing_mode) enabled, and only the Fast Pair not discoverable advertising with hide UI indication mode includes the Fast Pair payload.`

       Otherwise, MCUboot will not be able to read a flash area in the external flash to pick up a new firmware image.

* Unity:

  * Added:

    * Support for excluding functions from mock generation.
      This provides a framework to implement custom mocks.

  * Updated:

    * The generated mock functions have been renamed from ``__wrap`` to ``__cmock``.
    * The generated mock headers have been renamed from :file:`mock_<header_file>.h` to :file:`cmock_<header_file>.h`.
    * The compiler option ``--defsym`` is used instead of ``--wrap``.

MCUboot
=======

The MCUboot fork in |NCS| (``sdk-mcuboot``) contains all commits from the upstream MCUboot repository up to and including ``cfec947e0f8be686d02c73104a3b1ad0b5dcf1e6``, with some |NCS| specific additions.

The code for integrating MCUboot into |NCS| is located in the :file:`ncs/nrf/modules/mcuboot` folder.

The following list summarizes both the main changes inherited from upstream MCUboot and the main changes applied to the |NCS| specific additions:

* Added:

> 

Reviewer 14: * added precise check of the image size

Author: Added

Reviewer 14: - loader: Added post copy hook to swap function
- fixed ram loading for ARM, with correct handling of vector table when code has moved to RAM

Author: Added these entries. please check.

Reviewer 4: @nordicjm You probably want to mention https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-mcuboot/commit/11c5149a7dd6c9f7581e971656bae461c135e31a here

Reviewer 19: Already covered under DFU and FOTA

Reviewer 19: Serial recovery: Fixed issue with QSPI stack alignment which prevented writing data to QSPI slots.
Serial recovery: Fixed wrongly returning rc as an unsigned integer
Serial recovery: Added configuration option to configure size of previously 512-byte fixed buffer, allowing to receive larger packets which speed up data transfer

Author: Added

* :ref:`location_sample` sample:

  * Added overlay files for nRF9160 DK with nRF7002 EK to obtain the current location by using Wi-Fi scanning results.

* :ref:`lte_sensor_gateway` sample:

  * Added handling for the new data receive events in the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library.
  * Removed A-GPS and P-GPS processing; it is now handled by the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library.

* :ref:`nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service` sample:

  * Added:

    * Support for the :ref:`lib_location` library Wi-Fi location method with the nRF7002 EK.
    * Handling for the new data receive events in the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library.
    * Board overlay file for nRF9160 DK with external flash.
    * Overlay file to enable P-GPS data storage in external flash.

  * Removed A-GPS and P-GPS processing; it is now handled by the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library.

Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) samples
---------------------------------

* Added:

  * :ref:`tfm_psa_test` for validating compliance with Arm PSA Certified requirements.
  * :ref:`tfm_regression_test` to run secure and non-secure Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) regression tests.
  * :ref:`tfm_psa_template`, providing a template for Arm PSA best practices on nRF devices.

>   * :ref:`provisioning_image` sample that provisions the device in a manner compatible with Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M).

Reviewer 3: We can maybe add for information regarding the two samples here:
tfm_psa_template: providing a template for Arm PSA best practices on nRF devices and enforcing correct transition/usage of the PSA lifecycle states.  

provisioning_image: sample that provisions the PSA platform root of trust parameters (such as the PSA Implementation ID and  lifecycle state)  in a manner compatible with Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M).

Author: Added this, @Vge0rge

      This makes any supported modem update type acceptable when downloading.

  * Updated:

    * Calling the :c:func:`dfu_target_reset()` function clears all images that have already been downloaded into a target area.
      This allows cancelling any update packages even if they are already marked to be updated.

MPSL libraries
--------------

* Added :ref:`mpsl_lib`.

sdk-nrfxlib
-----------

See the changelog for each library in the :doc:`nrfxlib documentation <nrfxlib:README>` for additional information.

Scripts
=======

* :ref:`west_sbom`:

  * Updated the SPDX License List database to version 3.18.

* :ref:`partition_manager`:

  * Added:

    * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM_PARTITION_ALIGN_SETTINGS_STORAGE` Kconfig option to specify the alignment of the settings storage partition.
    * P-GPS partition section to the :file:`ncs/nrf/subsys/partition_manager/Kconfig` file.
    * Board-specific static Partition Manager configuration shared among build types.
      The configuration can be defined in the board's directory.

  * Updated the :file:`ncs/nrf/subsys/partition_manager/pm.yml.pgps` file to place P-GPS partition in external flash when so configured.

  * Fixed:

>     * An issue with the driver and devicetree symbol for the external flash memory where the driver was sometimes NULL, even if the DT node was chosen.

Reviewer 20: This can cause a somewhat cryptic error for mcuboot users, where they need to add a devicetree overlay to add a chosen `nordic,pm-ext-flash`. Maybe there should be a note here, or somewhere to do with mcuboot. Here is an example of this being fixed: https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/pull/9487/files.

@Damian-Nordic might have an opinion.

Author: @Damian-Nordic, could you suggest?

Author: Added this, @Damian-Nordic.

    See :ref:`ug_bootloader_external_flash` and :ref:`pm_external_flash` for details.

Zephyr
======

.. NOTE TO MAINTAINERS: All the Zephyr commits in the below git commands must be handled specially after each upmerge and each NCS release.

The Zephyr fork in |NCS| (``sdk-zephyr``) contains all commits from the upstream Zephyr repository up to and including ``cd16a8388f71a6cce0cea871f75f6d4ac8f56da9``, with some |NCS| specific additions.

For the list of upstream Zephyr commits (not including cherry-picked commits) incorporated into nRF Connect SDK since the most recent release, run the following command from the :file:`ncs/zephyr` repository (after running ``west update``):

.. code-block:: none

   git log --oneline cd16a8388f ^45ef0d2

For the list of |NCS| specific commits, including commits cherry-picked from upstream, run:

.. code-block:: none

   git log --oneline manifest-rev ^cd16a8388f

The current |NCS| main branch is based on revision ``cd16a8388f`` of Zephyr.

Additions specific to |NCS|
---------------------------

* |no_changes_yet_note|

zcbor

> =====

Author: @oyvindronningstad

Reviewer 20: There are no changes to do with zcbor in this release.

* |no_changes_yet_note|

Trusted Firmware-M
==================

* Added:

  * Reading, updating, and attesting the lifecycle state stored in nRF OTP.
    The storage is managed by the :ref:`doc_bl_storage` library.
  * Reading and attesting an implementation ID stored in nRF OTP.
    The storage is managed by the :ref:`doc_bl_storage` library.
  * Enabling the APPROTECT and the device reset when transitioning to the SECURED lifecycle state.
  * Support for provisioning as described in the Platform Security Architecture (PSA) security model.

cJSON
=====

> 

Author: @mbolivar-nordic could you check if there is anything that we should add here?

Reviewer 21: > @mbolivar-nordic could you check if there is anything that we should add here?

No changes have been made to this module since it was originally introduced into NCS. I think no content is needed.

Author: removed the section as there are no updates
